Palestinians call the founding of Israel
the neba or the catastrophe 76 years ago
more than
750,000 people were forcibly evicted
from their homes and today they're going
through an even greater catastrophe more
than 35,000 men women and children have
been killed by Israel's war on
Gaza we lived through the nakar not just
once we were displaced several times
Palestinian Exiles in 2014 we were
displaced in 2008 we were displaced in
2022 we were displaced I was a child in
1967 as well and the circumstances were
very
difficult a person does not feel
themselves except in their home a very
bitter reality and the situation is
difficult a tiring and boring life we
have begun to wish that we would die
under the rubble of our homes rather
than be
abandoned our life is a tragedy life is
non-existent people have been destroyed
how many Mars have died thousands half
of the population of Gaza has died Gaza
has been destroyed the rich person has
become a bigger in Gaza Israel has taken
us back 100 years we have our
correspondent T abum who's joining us
now from in central Gaza so T the war in
Gaza is described by some as another
neba uh talk us through what people are
going through
well the nakba in fact Darin has been
the core of the Palestinian struggle in
which thousands of Palestinians were
forcefully dispelled from the town and
Villages and we clearly see that in
1948 we're talking about at least 15,000
Palestinians being killed in more than
500 Villages uh that lat B the way for
the establishment of the Jewish
communities and now Palestinians see
that 2024 they are witnessing the worst
NABA ever that happened during the uh
history of the conflict which they have
been describing to be the deadliest ever
we are talking about 2 million
Palestinians being internally displaced
from the towns they are unable to return
to the houses or even to ret Tre of
their basic life rights of living and
now Palestinians ending up the situation
with them to live in makeshift tents
that completely lacks all lack all kinds
of BAS
necessities and supplies and living in a
very tiny strip of land and this among
Palestinians have been described to be
the West ever as they PL ongoing still
on the ground in the in the humanitarian
and security levels so clearly
Palestinians right now see that they are
witnessing a repeat of the painful
history in which they have been
completely deprived and forly eved from
their towns as Palestinians we have been
talking to them they have been
expressing their deep sadness and
frustration to their humanitarian
situation that they are experiencing now
as they say that there is no any end for
this nightmare in the foreseeable future
and T the Israeli forces we understand
are pushing deeper into areas like the
north of the strip as well as the South
bring us up to speed with what's
happening with the latest attacks what
sort of resistance is being put up as
well
well now the Israeli military focus is
pretty much on jabalia and draah
District now we know that they have been
describing the military operation Raa to
be limited but with the new
controversial military orders of
evacuation for residents in the Central
Area there is more growing intention by
the Israeli military to expand the
fighting uh to reach to the central
areas but now the fighting is are still
ongoing in the as Salam and Alisha
neighborhood as we have been seeing more
videos emerging released by the military
wing of Hamas show how close is the
contact fighting between Hamas Fighters
as the Israeli military as they have
been using military uh anti-tank
missiles and explosive devices in order
to confront the maneuvering military
tanks in rafah District but in the north
the battles are still ongoing in the
very narrow streets of jabalia refugee
camp where the fighting there have been
dis has been described to be the hardest
ever as the Israeli military have been
announcing uh of number of casualties
being reported among his soldiers on the
ground there but in the past hour
exactly therein the Israeli military has
announced the withdrawal from a zun
neighborhood after a military operation
that lasts for six days as they have
managed to destroy a a a clinic there
alongside with at least four schools
that people were using as a mass
shelters for them as residents started
to return to a zun neighborhood in order
to check the capital destruction being
left behind the Israeli military after
the withdrawal from the entire area
there okay T thank you so much reporting
from in central
Gaza make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer